---
author: "Aska Wilaga"
full title: "A resolution to be fair"
tags:
- Renungan
date: 2015-01-16
---

# A resolution to be fair

It’s the first time I use two words as a subject of my post. Because I  
want to write about fair and make it as my new resolution in this new  
year.

Before anything spit out from my mouth let’s study about what fair is.  
Many people would assume to be fair is to make something even in term  
of amount, count or something that could be divided into some even  
number. Or used as a term something that could be counted and divided.  
It’s not that. To be fair is to put something in its place. Anything.  
Not just something that could be divided.

To determine which part goes to where, we need to score that part. It  
means we must evaluate the problem and then judge which part is  
deserve its place.

Let say you found a candy wrappers in your way to home. Then you take  
it and put it in your pocket as trash can is nowhere to be found. When  
you got home, you dispose it along with your other trash.

Candy wrappers that you found in the street is a trash. Which belong  
to trash can. And you must put it where it really belong. That’s fair.

If you have a mistake, hurt others, or simply do something bad. You  
must make up for it. Apply an apology. Not because you ask for  
forgiveness. But to show that you did an awful act and trying to not  
do it again. That’s fair.

Let say you have 3 kids. And when sunday comes. You want to give them  
a candy because they’ve helping you clean up the house. 1 did the  
laundry. 1 did the mopping and the other 1 did nothing. Who’re you  
gonna give candy?

You know the answer right? That’s fair.

When you’re given a task in your work. You’ll do it with all your  
heart content. It’s part of your responsibilty. And it’s part of you  
who wants to be fair. To put your responsibility in it’s place. Be a  
professional.

So many we can achieve just applying a fair act in every aspect in our life.