---
author: "Aska Wilaga"
full title: "Storytelling"
tags:
- Renungan
date: 2014-12-21
---

# Storytelling

I’m grown as a boy who love reading so much. At first I just read kids  
weekly magazine bobo and donald duck comic. Donald duck succeed to  
influence my attention to comic. In my teenage I read comic a lot. Ranging  
from chinesse kung fu, western superheroes to japnese comic known as manga.  
As a student I never forgotten once to read my science subject book. Yup I  
love science. And I tried to crunch fiction on my adulthood. I don’t know  
before that fiction also interesting as much as comic.

Other than reading I also enjoy watching. Be that a movie, serial or anime.  
I just know that I enjoy audio visual. Another audio I enjoy are ranging  
from sountrack, movie score or music. Don’t forget to add instrument and  
nature sound to my list.

All I told above, are a few from many forms of storytelling. So what’s is  
storytelling anyway? It’s just something we do everyday. Everytime. Tell a  
story. Not exactly a story though. A useful information. If you ask me what  
useful informations are contained in comic? It’s imagination. Great for  
growing your child to be an aspiring person later.

Nowadays storytelling’s purpose has been hacked amd push to the edge to be  
used widely for spreading words about a good thing. Telling something which  
make us feel good, enjoy, comfortable. But it’s form never changed. Just  
evolving to modern version of media or platform. Painting, writing,  
podcasting, filming, dancing, singing and many more. Every act has its  
story. Different act means different something.

It’s not life if every good thing doesn’t have a bad side. Or a chance to  
be bad. With the help of internet, storytelling has become easier. Massive.  
One thing could told differently in different site. People with bad intent  
could change anything around them to be bad. Now, what story will you tell?